Chapter 9
After two years I remember the rest of that
day, and that night and the next day, only
as an endless drill of police and photographers
and newspaper men in and out of Gatsby’s
front door. A rope stretched across the main
gate and a policeman by it kept out the curious,
but little boys soon discovered that they
could enter through my yard, and there were
always a few of them clustered open-mouthed
about the pool. Someone with a positive manner,
perhaps a detective, used the expression “madman”
as he bent over Wilson’s body that afternoon,
and the adventitious authority of his voice
set the key for the newspaper reports next
morning.
Most of those reports were a nightmare — grotesque,
circumstantial, eager, and untrue. When Michaelis’s
testimony at the inquest brought to light
Wilson’s suspicions of his wife I thought
the whole tale would shortly be served up
in racy pasquinade — but Catherine, who
might have said anything, didn’t say a word.
She showed a surprising amount of character
about it too — looked at the coroner with
determined eyes under that corrected brow
of hers, and swore that her sister had never
seen Gatsby, that her sister was completely
happy with her husband, that her sister had
been into no mischief whatever. She convinced
herself of it, and cried into her handkerchief,
as if the very suggestion was more than she
could endure. S. Wilson was reduced to a man
“deranged by grief” in order that the
case might remain in its simplist form. And
it rested there.
But all this part of it seemed remote and
unessential. I found myself on Gatsby’s
side, and alone. From the moment I telephoned
news of the catastrophe to West Egg village,
every surmise about him, and every practical
question, was referred to me. At first I was
surprised and confused; then, as he lay in
his house and didn’t move or breathe or
speak, hour upon hour, it grew upon me that
I was responsible, because no one else was
interested — interested, I mean, with that
intense personal interest to which every one
has some vague right at the end.
I called up Daisy half an hour after we found
him, called her instinctively and without
hesitation. But she and Tom had gone away
early that afternoon, and taken baggage with
them.
“Left no address?”
“No.”
“Say when they’d be back?”
“Any idea where they are? How I could reach
them?”
“I don’t know. Can’t say.”
I wanted to get somebody for him. I wanted
to go into the room where he lay and reassure
him: “I’ll get somebody for you, Gatsby.
Don’t worry. Just trust me and I’ll get
somebody for you ——”
Meyer Wolfsheim’s name wasn’t in the phone
book. The butler gave me his office address
on Broadway, and I called Information, but
by the time I had the number it was long after
five, and no one answered the phone.
“Will you ring again?”
“I’ve rung them three times.”
“It’s very important.”
“Sorry. I’m afraid no one’s there.”
I went back to the drawing-room and thought
for an instant that they were chance visitors,
all these official people who suddenly filled
it. But, as they drew back the sheet and looked
at Gatsby with unmoved eyes, his protest continued
in my brain:
“Look here, old sport, you’ve got to get
somebody for me. You’ve got to try hard.
I can’t go through this alone.”
Some one started to ask me questions, but
I broke away and going up-stairs looked hastily
through the unlocked parts of his desk — he’d
never told me definitely that his parents
were dead. But there was nothing — only
the picture of Dan Cody, a token of forgotten
violence, staring down from the wall.
Next morning I sent the butler to New York
with a letter to Wolfsheim, which asked for
information and urged him to come out on the
next train. That request seemed superfluous
when I wrote it. I was sure he’d start when
he saw the newspapers, just as I was sure
there’d be a wire from Daisy before noon
— but neither a wire nor Mr. Wolfsheim arrived;
no one arrived except more police and photographers
and newspaper men. When the butler brought
back Wolfsheim’s answer I began to have
a feeling of defiance, of scornful solidarity
between Gatsby and me against them all.
Dear Mr. Carraway. This has been one of the
most terrible shocks of my life to me I hardly
can believe it that it is true at all. Such
a mad act as that man did should make us all
think. I cannot come down now as I am tied
up in some very important business and cannot
get mixed up in this thing now. If there is
anything I can do a little later let me know
in a letter by Edgar. I hardly know where
I am when I hear about a thing like this and
am completely knocked down and out.
Yours truly Meyer Wolfshiem
and then hasty addenda beneath:
Let me know about the funeral etc. Do not
know his family at all.
When the phone rang that afternoon and Long
Distance said Chicago was calling I thought
this would be Daisy at last. But the connection
came through as a man’s voice, very thin
and far away.
“This is Slagle speaking . . . ”
“Yes?” The name was unfamiliar.
“Hell of a note, isn’t it? Get my wire?”
“There haven’t been any wires.”
“Young Parke’s in trouble,” he said
rapidly. “They picked him up when he handed
the bonds over the counter. They got a circular
from New York giving ’em the numbers just
five minutes before. What d’you know about
that, hey? You never can tell in these hick
towns ——”
“Hello!” I interrupted breathlessly. “Look
here — this isn’t Mr. Gatsby. Mr. Gatsby’s
dead.”
There was a long silence on the other end
of the wire, followed by an exclamation . . . then
a quick squawk as the connection was broken.
I think it was on the third day that a telegram
signed Henry C. Gatz arrived from a town in
Minnesota. It said only that the sender was
leaving immediately and to postpone the funeral
until he came.
It was Gatsby’s father, a solemn old man,
very helpless and dismayed, bundled up in
a long cheap ulster against the warm September
day. His eyes leaked continuously with excitement,
and when I took the bag and umbrella from
his hands he began to pull so incessantly
at his sparse gray beard that I had difficulty
in getting off his coat. He was on the point
of collapse, so I took him into the music
room and made him sit down while I sent for
something to eat. But he wouldn’t eat, and
the glass of milk spilled from his trembling
hand.
“I saw it in the Chicago newspaper,” he
said. “It was all in the Chicago newspaper.
I started right away.”
“I didn’t know how to reach you.” His
eyes, seeing nothing, moved ceaselessly about
the room.
“It was a madman,” he said. “He must
have been mad.”
“Wouldn’t you like some coffee?” I urged
him.
“I don’t want anything. I’m all right
now, Mr. ——”
“Carraway.”
“Well, I’m all right now. Where have they
got Jimmy?” I took him into the drawing-room,
where his son lay, and left him there. Some
little boys had come up on the steps and were
looking into the hall; when I told them who
had arrived, they went reluctantly away.
After a little while Mr. Gatz opened the door
and came out, his mouth ajar, his face flushed
slightly, his eyes leaking isolated and unpunctual
tears. He had reached an age where death no
longer has the quality of ghastly surprise,
and when he looked around him now for the
first time and saw the height and splendor
of the hall and the great rooms opening out
from it into other rooms, his grief began
to be mixed with an awed pride. I helped him
to a bedroom up-stairs; while he took off
his coat and vest I told him that all arrangements
had been deferred until he came.
“I didn’t know what you’d want, Mr.
Gatsby ——”
“Gatz is my name.”
“— Mr. Gatz. I thought you might want
to take the body West.”
He shook his head.
“Jimmy always liked it better down East.
He rose up to his position in the East. Were
you a friend of my boy’s, Mr. —?”
“We were close friends.”
“He had a big future before him, you know.
He was only a young man, but he had a lot
of brain power here.”
He touched his head impressively, and I nodded.
“If he’d of lived, he’d of been a great
man. A man like James J. Hill. He’d of helped
build up the country.”
“That’s true,” I said, uncomfortably.
He fumbled at the embroidered coverlet, trying
to take it from the bed, and lay down stiffly
— was instantly asleep.
That night an obviously frightened person
called up, and demanded to know who I was
before he would give his name.
“This is Mr. Carraway,” I said.
“Oh!” He sounded relieved. “This is
Klipspringer.” I was relieved too, for that
seemed to promise another friend at Gatsby’s
grave. I didn’t want it to be in the papers
and draw a sightseeing crowd, so I’d been
calling up a few people myself. They were
hard to find.
“The funeral’s to-morrow,” I said. “Three
o’clock, here at the house. I wish you’d
tell anybody who’d be interested.”
“Oh, I will,” he broke out hastily. “Of
course I’m not likely to see anybody, but
if I do.”
His tone made me suspicious.
“Of course you’ll be there yourself.”
“Well, I’ll certainly try. What I called
up about is ——”
“Wait a minute,” I interrupted. “How
about saying you’ll come?”
“Well, the fact is — the truth of the
matter is that I’m staying with some people
up here in Greenwich, and they rather expect
me to be with them to-morrow. In fact, there’s
a sort of picnic or something. Of course I’ll
do my very best to get away.”
I ejaculated an unrestrained “Huh!” and
he must have heard me, for he went on nervously:
“What I called up about was a pair of shoes
I left there. I wonder if it’d be too much
trouble to have the butler send them on. You
see, they’re tennis shoes, and I’m sort
of helpless without them. My address is care
of B. F. ——”
I didn’t hear the rest of the name, because
I hung up the receiver.
After that I felt a certain shame for Gatsby
— one gentleman to whom I telephoned implied
that he had got what he deserved. However,
that was my fault, for he was one of those
who used to sneer most bitterly at Gatsby
on the courage of Gatsby’s liquor, and I
should have known better than to call him.
The morning of the funeral I went up to New
York to see Meyer Wolfsheim; I couldn’t
seem to reach him any other way. The door
that I pushed open, on the advice of an elevator
boy, was marked “The Swastika Holding Company,”
and at first there didn’t seem to be any
one inside. But when I’d shouted “hello”
several times in vain, an argument broke out
behind a partition, and presently a lovely
Jewess appeared at an interior door and scrutinized
me with black hostile eyes.
“Nobody’s in,” she said. “Mr. Wolfsheim’s
gone to Chicago.”
The first part of this was obviously untrue,
for someone had begun to whistle “The Rosary,”
tunelessly, inside.
“Please say that Mr. Carraway wants to see
him.”
“I can’t get him back from Chicago, can
I?”
At this moment a voice, unmistakably Wolfsheim’s,
called “Stella!” from the other side of
the door.
“Leave your name on the desk,” she said
quickly. “I’ll give it to him when he
gets back.”
“But I know he’s there.”
She took a step toward me and began to slide
her hands indignantly up and down her hips.
“You young men think you can force your
way in here any time,” she scolded. “We’re
getting sickantired of it. When I say he’s
in Chicago, he’s in Chicago.”
I mentioned Gatsby.
“Oh — h!” She looked at me over again.
“Will you just — What was your name?”
She vanished. In a moment Meyer Wolfsheim
stood solemnly in the doorway, holding out
both hands. He drew me into his office, remarking
in a reverent voice that it was a sad time
for all of us, and offered me a cigar.
“My memory goes back to when I first met
him,” he said. “A young major just out
of the army and covered over with medals he
got in the war. He was so hard up he had to
keep on wearing his uniform because he couldn’t
buy some regular clothes. First time I saw
him was when he come into Winebrenner’s
poolroom at Forty-third Street and asked for
a job. He hadn’t eat anything for a couple
of days. ‘come on have some lunch with me,’
I sid. He ate more than four dollars’ worth
of food in half an hour.”
“Did you start him in business?” I inquired.
“Start him! I made him.”
“Oh.”
“I raised him up out of nothing, right out
of the gutter. I saw right away he was a fine-appearing,
gentlemanly young man, and when he told me
he was at Oggsford I knew I could use him
good. I got him to join up in the American
Legion and he used to stand high there. Right
off he did some work for a client of mine
up to Albany. We were so thick like that in
everything.”— he held up two bulbous fingers
——” always together.”
I wondered if this partnership had included
the World’s Series transaction in 1919.
“Now he’s dead,” I said after a moment.
“You were his closest friend, so I know
you’ll want to come to his funeral this
afternoon.”
“I’d like to come.”
“Well, come then.”
The hair in his nostrils quivered slightly,
and as he shook his head his eyes filled with
tears.
“I can’t do it — I can’t get mixed
up in it,” he said.
“There’s nothing to get mixed up in. It’s
all over now.”
“When a man gets killed I never like to
get mixed up in it in any way. I keep out.
When I was a young man it was different — if
a friend of mine died, no matter how, I stuck
with them to the end. You may think that’s
sentimental, but I mean it — to the bitter
end.”
I saw that for some reason of his own he was
determined not to come, so I stood up.
“Are you a college man?” he inquired suddenly.
For a moment I thought he was going to suggest
a “gonnegtion,” but he only nodded and
shook my hand.
“Let us learn to show our friendship for
a man when he is alive and not after he is
dead,” he suggested. “After that my own
rule is to let everything alone.”
When I left his office the sky had turned
dark and I got back to West Egg in a drizzle.
After changing my clothes I went next door
and found Mr. Gatz walking up and down excitedly
in the hall. His pride in his son and in his
son’s possessions was continually increasing
and now he had something to show me.
“Jimmy sent me this picture.” He took
out his wallet with trembling fingers. “Look
there.”
It was a photograph of the house, cracked
in the corners and dirty with many hands.
He pointed out every detail to me eagerly.
“Look there!” and then sought admiration
from my eyes. He had shown it so often that
I think it was more real to him now than the
house itself.
“Jimmy sent it to me. I think it’s a very
pretty picture. It shows up well.”
“Very well. Had you seen him lately?”
“He come out to see me two years ago and
bought me the house I live in now. Of course
we was broke up when he run off from home,
but I see now there was a reason for it. He
knew he had a big future in front of him.
And ever since he made a success he was very
generous with me.” He seemed reluctant to
put away the picture, held it for another
minute, lingeringly, before my eyes. Then
he returned the wallet and pulled from his
pocket a ragged old copy of a book called
Hopalong Cassidy.
“Look here, this is a book he had when he
was a boy. It just shows you.”
He opened it at the back cover and turned
it around for me to see. On the last fly-leaf
was printed the word Schedule, and the date
September 12, 1906, and underneath:
Rise from bed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.00
a.m.
Dumbbell exercise and wall-scaling. . . . .. 6.15-6.30
”
Study electricity, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . 7.15-8.15
Work. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.30-4.30
p.m.
Baseball and sports. . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.30-5.00
”
Practice elocution, poise and how to attain
it 5.00-6.00 ”
Study needed inventions. . . . . . . . . . . 7.00-9.00
”
General Resolves No wasting time at Shafters
or [a name, indecipherable] No more smokeing
or chewing Bath every other day Read one improving
book or magazine per week Save $5.00 {crossed
out} $3.00 per week Be better to parents
“I come across this book by accident,”
said the old man. “It just shows you, don’t
it?”
“It just shows you.”
“Jimmy was bound to get ahead. He always
had some resolves like this or something.
Do you notice what he’s got about improving
his mind? He was always great for that. He
told me I et like a hog once, and I beat him
for it.”
He was reluctant to close the book, reading
each item aloud and then looking eagerly at
me. I think he rather expected me to copy
down the list for my own use.
A little before three the Lutheran minister
arrived from Flushing, and I began to look
involuntarily out the windows for other cars.
So did Gatsby’s father. And as the time
passed and the servants came in and stood
waiting in the hall, his eyes began to blink
anxiously, and he spoke of the rain in a worried,
uncertain way. The minister glanced several
times at his watch, so I took him aside and
asked him to wait for half an hour. But it
wasn’t any use. Nobody came.
About five o’clock our procession of three
cars reached the cemetery and stopped in a
thick drizzle beside the gate — first a
motor hearse, horribly black and wet, then
Mr. Gatz and the minister and I in the limousine,
and a little later four or five servants and
the postman from West Egg in Gatsby’s station
wagon, all wet to the skin. As we started
through the gate into the cemetery I heard
a car stop and then the sound of someone splashing
after us over the soggy ground. I looked around.
It was the man with owl-eyed glasses whom
I had found marvelling over Gatsby’s books
in the library one night three months before.
I’d never seen him since then. I don’t
know how he knew about the funeral, or even
his name. The rain poured down his thick glasses,
and he took them off and wiped them to see
the protecting canvas unrolled from Gatsby’s
grave.
I tried to think about Gatsby then for a moment,
but he was already too far away, and I could
only remember, without resentment, that Daisy
hadn’t sent a message or a flower. Dimly
I heard someone murmur, “Blessed are the
dead that the rain falls on,” and then the
owl-eyed man said “Amen to that,” in a
brave voice.
We straggled down quickly through the rain
to the cars. Owl-eyes spoke to me by the gate.
“I couldn’t get to the house,” he remarked.
“Neither could anybody else.”
“Go on!” He started. “Why, my God! they
used to go there by the hundreds.” He took
off his glasses and wiped them again, outside
and in.
“The poor son-of-a-bitch,” he said.
One of my most vivid memories is of coming
back West from prep school and later from
college at Christmas time. Those who went
farther than Chicago would gather in the old
dim Union Station at six o’clock of a December
evening, with a few Chicago friends, already
caught up into their own holiday gayeties,
to bid them a hasty good-by. I remember the
fur coats of the girls returning from Miss
This-or-that’s and the chatter of frozen
breath and the hands waving overhead as we
caught sight of old acquaintances, and the
matchings of invitations: “Are you going
to the Ordways’? the Herseys’? the Schultzes’?”
and the long green tickets clasped tight in
our gloved hands. And last the murky yellow
cars of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
railroad looking cheerful as Christmas itself
on the tracks beside the gate.
When we pulled out into the winter night and
the real snow, our snow, began to stretch
out beside us and twinkle against the windows,
and the dim lights of small Wisconsin stations
moved by, a sharp wild brace came suddenly
into the air. We drew in deep breaths of it
as we walked back from dinner through the
cold vestibules, unutterably aware of our
identity with this country for one strange
hour, before we melted indistinguishably into
it again.
That’s my Middle West — not the wheat
or the prairies or the lost Swede towns, but
the thrilling returning trains of my youth,
and the street lamps and sleigh bells in the
frosty dark and the shadows of holly wreaths
thrown by lighted windows on the snow. I am
part of that, a little solemn with the feel
of those long winters, a little complacent
from growing up in the Carraway house in a
city where dwellings are still called through
decades by a family’s name. I see now that
this has been a story of the West, after all
— Tom and Gatsby, Daisy and Jordan and I,
were all Westerners, and perhaps we possessed
some deficiency in common which made us subtly
unadaptable to Eastern life.
Even when the East excited me most, even when
I was most keenly aware of its superiority
to the bored, sprawling, swollen towns beyond
the Ohio, with their interminable inquisitions
which spared only the children and the very
old — even then it had always for me a quality
of distortion. West Egg, especially, still
figures in my more fantastic dreams. I see
it as a night scene by El Greco: a hundred
houses, at once conventional and grotesque,
crouching under a sullen, overhanging sky
and a lustreless moon. In the foreground four
solemn men in dress suits are walking along
the sidewalk with a stretcher on which lies
a drunken woman in a white evening dress.
Her hand, which dangles over the side, sparkles
cold with jewels. Gravely the men turn in
at a house — the wrong house. But no one
knows the woman’s name, and no one cares.
After Gatsby’s death the East was haunted
for me like that, distorted beyond my eyes’
power of correction. So when the blue smoke
of brittle leaves was in the air and the wind
blew the wet laundry stiff on the line I decided
to come back home.
There was one thing to be done before I left,
an awkward, unpleasant thing that perhaps
had better have been let alone. But I wanted
to leave things in order and not just trust
that obliging and indifferent sea to sweep
my refuse away. I saw Jordan Baker and talked
over and around what had happened to us together,
and what had happened afterward to me, and
she lay perfectly still, listening, in a big
chair.
She was dressed to play golf, and I remember
thinking she looked like a good illustration,
her chin raised a little jauntily, her hair
the color of an autumn leaf, her face the
same brown tint as the fingerless glove on
her knee. When I had finished she told me
without comment that she was engaged to another
man. I doubted that, though there were several
she could have married at a nod of her head,
but I pretended to be surprised. For just
a minute I wondered if I wasn’t making a
mistake, then I thought it all over again
quickly and got up to say good-bye.
“Nevertheless you did throw me over,”
said Jordan suddenly. “You threw me over
on the telephone. I don’t give a damn about
you now, but it was a new experience for me,
and I felt a little dizzy for a while.”
We shook hands.
“Oh, and do you remember.”— she added
——” a conversation we had once about
driving a car?”
“Why — not exactly.”
“You said a bad driver was only safe until
she met another bad driver? Well, I met another
bad driver, didn’t I? I mean it was careless
of me to make such a wrong guess. I thought
you were rather an honest, straightforward
person. I thought it was your secret pride.”
“I’m thirty,” I said. “I’m five
years too old to lie to myself and call it
honor.”
She didn’t answer. Angry, and half in love
with her, and tremendously sorry, I turned
away.
One afternoon late in October I saw Tom Buchanan.
He was walking ahead of me along Fifth Avenue
in his alert, aggressive way, his hands out
a little from his body as if to fight off
interference, his head moving sharply here
and there, adapting itself to his restless
eyes. Just as I slowed up to avoid overtaking
him he stopped and began frowning into the
windows of a jewelry store. Suddenly he saw
me and walked back, holding out his hand.
“What’s the matter, Nick? Do you object
to shaking hands with me?”
“Yes. You know what I think of you.”
“You’re crazy, Nick,” he said quickly.
“Crazy as hell. I don’t know what’s
the matter with you.”
“Tom,” I inquired, “what did you say
to Wilson that afternoon?” He stared at
me without a word, and I knew I had guessed
right about those missing hours. I started
to turn away, but he took a step after me
and grabbed my arm.
“I told him the truth,” he said. “He
came to the door while we were getting ready
to leave, and when I sent down word that we
weren’t in he tried to force his way up-stairs.
He was crazy enough to kill me if I hadn’t
told him who owned the car. His hand was on
a revolver in his pocket every minute he was
in the house ——” He broke off defiantly.
“What if I did tell him? That fellow had
it coming to him. He threw dust into your
eyes just like he did in Daisy’s, but he
was a tough one. He ran over Myrtle like you’d
run over a dog and never even stopped his
car.”
There was nothing I could say, except the
one unutterable fact that it wasn’t true.
“And if you think I didn’t have my share
of suffering — look here, when I went to
give up that flat and saw that damn box of
dog biscuits sitting there on the sideboard,
I sat down and cried like a baby. By God it
was awful ——”
I couldn’t forgive him or like him, but
I saw that what he had done was, to him, entirely
justified. It was all very careless and confused.
They were careless people, Tom and Daisy — they
smashed up things and creatures and then retreated
back into their money or their vast carelessness,
or whatever it was that kept them together,
and let other people clean up the mess they
had made. . . .
I shook hands with him; it seemed silly not
to, for I felt suddenly as though I were talking
to a child. Then he went into the jewelry
store to buy a pearl necklace — or perhaps
only a pair of cuff buttons — rid of my
provincial squeamishness forever.
Gatsby’s house was still empty when I left
— the grass on his lawn had grown as long
as mine. One of the taxi drivers in the village
never took a fare past the entrance gate without
stopping for a minute and pointing inside;
perhaps it was he who drove Daisy and Gatsby
over to East Egg the night of the accident,
and perhaps he had made a story about it all
his own. I didn’t want to hear it and I
avoided him when I got off the train.
I spent my Saturday nights in New York because
those gleaming, dazzling parties of his were
with me so vividly that I could still hear
the music and the laughter, faint and incessant,
from his garden, and the cars going up and
down his drive. One night I did hear a material
car there, and saw its lights stop at his
front steps. But I didn’t investigate. Probably
it was some final guest who had been away
at the ends of the earth and didn’t know
that the party was over.
On the last night, with my trunk packed and
my car sold to the grocer, I went over and
looked at that huge incoherent failure of
a house once more. On the white steps an obscene
word, scrawled by some boy with a piece of
brick, stood out clearly in the moonlight,
and I erased it, drawing my shoe raspingly
along the stone. Then I wandered down to the
beach and sprawled out on the sand.
Most of the big shore places were closed now
and there were hardly any lights except the
shadowy, moving glow of a ferryboat across
the Sound. And as the moon rose higher the
inessential houses began to melt away until
gradually I became aware of the old island
here that flowered once for Dutch sailors’
eyes — a fresh, green breast of the new
world. Its vanished trees, the trees that
had made way for Gatsby’s house, had once
pandered in whispers to the last and greatest
of all human dreams; for a transitory enchanted
moment man must have held his breath in the
presence of this continent, compelled into
an aesthetic contemplation he neither understood
nor desired, face to face for the last time
in history with something commensurate to
his capacity for wonder.
And as I sat there brooding on the old, unknown
world, I thought of Gatsby’s wonder when
he first picked out the green light at the
end of Daisy’s dock. He had come a long
way to this blue lawn, and his dream must
have seemed so close that he could hardly
fail to grasp it. He did not know that it
was already behind him, somewhere back in
that vast obscurity beyond the city, where
the dark fields of the republic rolled on
under the night.
Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgastic
future that year by year recedes before us.
It eluded us then, but that’s no matter
— to-morrow we will run faster, stretch
out our arms farther. . . . And one fine morning
——
So we beat on, boats against the current,
borne back ceaselessly into the past.